i'm on the phone with a new zealander
named fraser and i decided to talk to
fraser to invite him on to
talk to me while i'm on camera because
he mentioned having i guess
uh some negative experiences maybe in a
sense and positive experiences
with him uh pointing the finger at
identifying or reporting
uh neo-nazis on the internet in the
aftermath
pardon me in the aftermath of the christ
church shooting
and he got to say see the way in which
certain online organizations reorganize
themselves in that period
which is now you know just a few months
ago so
my experience on youtube has been
extremely
negative with pointing the finger at um
drawing attention to and criticizing
neo-nazis fascists and white
supremacists
i have on three different occasions had
a video
uh deleted by youtube and i have been
punished
because my video was quote-unquote hate
speech
and in two of the three cases i was
quoting criticizing and denouncing um
a white supremacist or a neo-nazi for
their hate speech or for their political
position
so this raises a lot of weird questions
about how youtube works
how the internet works and the future
of political discourse so just before we
turn on the camera
he said to me well i hope i hope this
interview is in good faith i hope this
discussion is in good faith
so it's a great it's a great question
but i mean like
you know um i think actually part of
what what's being questioned here is
how can we have these discussions in
good faith if you're in a situation
where
i mean maybe it's just using the word
nazi
gets your video banned it doesn't matter
that you're that you're that you're
saying nazis are bad or whatever
you're saying this guy's a nazi it
should it should be addressed or stuck
it's criticized
so how did you respond to this we just
um you know you i heard you vaguely
mention this in the chat forum
what uh what happened next
uh amplitudes of freedom of information
acts calls to the internet service
providers
trying to find out what's going on here
why can't i go
and use the internet like i should be
i i go on spark as my internet service
provider
and i call up their helpline
and ask why can't i go on 4chan and they
say oh it must be on your end
then i have to go to an alternative
social media to find my true answer
that i was seeking for i have to go on
twitter
which twitter is sharing uh
these these horrible videos and is
sharing
links to the great replacement but i
have to go on twitter
to find out why i can't go on 4chan so
these are two
social medias right right 4chan
has been around for longer than twitter
if i want to get
information if i want to get news i'll
be honest with you i'll go to 4chan
not twitter because it's not algorithmic
on twitter so
did the government of new zealand
unfortunately did the government of new
zealand formally pass a law
like communist china does that that you
know was creating i mean in china they
call it the great firewall of china that
was creating a censorship regime that
was blocking these websites or was it
was it ad hoc was it informal was there
no
no legal and political justification
while it was all happening that both
parties acted like they had nothing to
do with it
the freedom of information act said no
we didn't do anything
the internet service providers say
it's my problem not theirs and if it's
the government doing it
it's out of our control but in reality
what the case was is that
the internet service providers acted in
haste on their own volition
and also were given a
list they were informed by the
government
let's say the government gave them a
list and said hey
here's something to consider and then
the internet service providers
did their bidding but not in a legal
sense okay has it has it lasted or is
4chan and so on are those sites now now
visible in new zealand
it took like about
a week and a half maybe two weeks so it
wasn't down
for the whole time now personally i
think that there's
there's not a big there's not a big
issue around it if it wasn't for it
being
uh equally applied right so if 4chan is
going to get taken down because this
shooting video is being propagated then
why isn't the same happening for
facebook and twitter
yeah i mean well okay that already is an
interesting question where it's not an
ideological contrast it's just a
different
competitor in the free market providing
the same service
that's bizarre yeah less
um historic competitor as well like
4chan is one of the originators i would
say
i admit i have never once used 4chan in
my life just disclosure
yeah it's okay i don't feel there's
anything lacking in my life for having
never used
uh never used 4chan but yeah i mean the
other question is where does it stop
uh massacres are an important part of
history you know
whether it's massacres in cambodia or
whatever and i mean
i've just been making videos asking you
know well if you're going to censor
every video that lies about world war ii
and i understand i understand the
sensitivity to that i understand
emotionally why people feel it's better
to shut down
anyone who's telling lies but this year
world war ii well are you also going to
shut down
japanese people who lie about world war
ii are you also going to shut down
communists and left-wingers who lie
about world war because people who
support joseph stalin
still today are still out there on
youtube making positive statements about
joseph stalin history so i mean i'm only
comfortable with censorship we have very
clear
standards that are applied to everyone
equally i wasn't even thinking about it
in terms of everyone meeting two
different corporations like facebook
versus
fortune but everyone meaning every every
ideology
and um yeah i could take this to like
even
an academic level you know so when the
great replacement got casted as
objectionable then only
uh those accepted or certified by the
government were able to possess
this book this document right
i have read the manifesto um
you know the christ church shooter and i
commented on the time
and i think that many people working in
the mainstream press had not read it
it's possible they were just being
dishonest but i assume you've read it
one of the things that left out at me
was the fact that he refers to china
positively many times
and he refers to his own past as a
communist and linked to communism
several times
that to me is very significant i
recently met people so he's obviously
someone who made the switch
from communism to what he called
eco-fascism
so but that's primarily about the
authoritarian
aspect of it right right but you see but
already that that is something
people can learn from that's something
that's important you know like i
that's why don't you learn what his
agenda was if we're gonna
well right but do you give me so i spoke
to some people on discord recently voice
voice chat over the internet and they
were presenting themselves as completely
100 percent
hardcore communists and then a couple
days later
i was there were other people in the
room and they told me oh you know two of
those guys
who were talking about communism you
know just a few months ago
they were right-wing white nationalists
just a few like
they remembered these guys from maybe
was six months ago maybe was four months
ago whatever they only recently became
marxists and then communist extremism
so again i just say there's something
important to be learned
there there's a lesson there um
anyway sorry i mean here i am smiling
and laughing about it but it doesn't
matter if you want to laugh you want to
or you want to cry
okay so i i just asked what was part of
your experience
also uh kind of reporting who the nazis
were
and seeing those dominoes fall or no was
that not part of what was going on
yes so there was a point in time where i
was trying to figure out
if there were any white supremacist
movements in new zealand
and who these people may be uh
what what ideas they rally behind and i
discovered this
uh fairly recent they had been
operating in 2018
a group called the dominion movement
and the dominion movement they seem
that they're pretty straightforward
right they have the black sun
uh symbolism which is also on the front
page
of the shooter's manifesto and they
describe themselves as a grassroots
identitarian activist organization
committed to the revitalization of the
country and our people
white new zealanders with this purpose
in mind
so not a lot of mystery there not a lot
of mystery to travel yeah
yeah it's pretty straightforward stuff
right
if you're gonna talk to a white
supremacist they make it well known
they don't use these very ambiguous dog
whistles like
okay hand gestures if they want to get
their point across
they talk about uh our people and
and things like this you know it's
rather straightforward
so the dominion movement they took their
website down
quite a way back but fortunately
somebody had
captured their page on the wayback
machine
so i was able to have a dig through
after the shooting and see what they're
about
try and find some names and things like
this there's not really much
to uh dig up out of it yeah
something i just i just want to say in
general i find disturbing um
how did this custom develop in the
western world
that when someone commits suicide
immediately their youtube channel is
deleted
their facebook page deleted all traced
and they translated when someone
commits murder like you know regardless
of the case whether it's political
murder
or not i i really i really fundamentally
disagree with this
and it's just a custom it's not required
by law i can remember many years ago
when i was in the internet um
a relatively young man committed to i
think he was in his 20s
and his mom took over his website and
you know put a notice you know
you know my son's now dead but you know
many of you left you know
nice messages here so i'm going to
maintain the website you know in his
memory you know
why why not and you know um there was
the um the so-called youtube shooter
the woman who went in and had a shooting
at your quarters
why would you delete the evidence of who
this woman was in her struggle
you know again obviously
you know to to
keep that evidence intact is not to
celebrate it you know um but but even so
even if there are people who are drawn
to that like a moth to a flame and
celebrate it
then at least you can address those
people i mean then at least it can draw
out and you can solve
the problem yeah yeah yeah
anyway i find it i find it very
problematic
i don't i don't have a problem with some
website
maintaining the standards that say um
cnn maintains or mainstream news channel
maintains where you know nobody gets to
swear
there are no swear words there's a very
limited range of political things that
are that are possible
but i mean what the internet presented
to us i don't have to i don't have to
fantasize with the internet in the
future
i can just talk about the internet in
the past what the internet presented to
us was the possibility
of a much wider and deeper range of
political discourse
um i think that 4chan is the epitome of
that where any person can go online and
be given an equal platform
to anyone else so there's there's some
rumor that taylor swift
uses 4chan and this is because she gets
treated like
everyone else that's the idea of the
website is you get treated like anyone
else
no anyone who's a celebrity you get
treated just like any other [ __ ] poster
you know
yeah everyone's on an equal platform
whereas
the likes of facebook and youtube their
uh
political sway to the left
has been very very well documented
especially in the past
week yes yeah i just i just made a video
talking about that yesterday
um so within the last 24 hours ted cruz
has addressed that in uh
america it says i'm very interested in
that as it as it develops
so let me ask you i i would imagine
current people wrong your feeling was
the problem is not 4chan and here you
discovered this group
this nazi group that really was the
problem so
what did you do with that information i
mean if it were me i might try to make a
youtube video about it or something i
don't know
what what can you do with it once you
got it um
like i i write a small amount of
documents there's
there's honestly not much one man can do
other than to share the word
of a nation that
not not many people give a [ __ ] about
you know like i i listen to the
not the mainstream media but the state
media and i'll listen to
these clips and hear people advocating
for political violence like the throwing
of milkshakes and saying that uh
4chan and video gaming is what is
fueling
these deranged shooters and i all i hear
is the ostracizing of cultures of video
gamers in general you know saying that
video gamers have deranged people who
are going to commit school shootings on
average
right well look i just mentioned you
know so my both of my parents
became communist extremists and and one
so this is
this is a hundred years ago this is many
many decades ago you know before i was
born
um but you know one of the questions you
kind of have to ask and most of the
people you'd ask today would already be
dead
or very elderly is why didn't someone
intervene
like why didn't someone step in and say
look i understand you're being drawn
deeper and deeper into this kind of
subculture you know you're surrounding
yourself with people who regard this
stuff as normal and so on
but you know um who who is going to
check that now the difference is in that
time
there was no internet my father got
drawn into that
through you know pamphlets on paper and
he didn't just have to walk
places to go to meetings he had to take
long bus rides canada is a big empty
country
you know he had to really he had to
really move long distances to go to
different kinds of events
by bus and by hitchhiking so i mean like
the level of motivation you had to have
compared to just watching some youtube
videos
was much much higher but i mean kind of
the question i mean you know my
grandparents that whole generation is
now dead
um but you know and again it's nobody's
responsibility
right i mean to counter that kind of
tendency
it's nobody's job to sit down with
someone and say look
i know you've been reading these really
biased sources about history because a
lot of it is constructed out of history
whether it's left-wing or right-wing
you've been reading this really and
you've become radicalized you've become
motivated by it
you know but you know have you have you
thought about this it could
someone someone to sit down and
challenge it
i i i think that it's up to our
as much as i hate i truly hate to say it
it's up to our surveillance
agencies to find the correct language
that these people use personally i don't
think that they organize on 4chan
because 4chan is absolutely chaotic i
think that 4chan
is like the top of the pipe when it
comes to pipelines
you may you may uh group up and form
on a different platform but
it's once it goes to those points and
onwards that
the surveillance agencies need to know
the language
the explicit language that they use
it's such a difficult it's the internet
you know it's such a difficult issue
i'm gonna say i'm gonna say something
oddly optimistic to you
though um so i used to be a buddhist i'm
now openly an ex-buddhist
but i can remember saying to people
within buddhism the reality in prisons
today so this is very true of canada
and the united states it's probably a
little bit less true of australia new
zealand but not so different
so the reality in prisons today is
people go to prison
and they either become neo-nazis get
involved with white power
movements in prison or they get involved
with they convert to islam
also very common in prison they need to
critique themselves
yeah and also it's just you know prison
is a is a desperate lonely
boring time in their lives um and then
of course there are some who maybe
convert to
protestantism some form of of
charismatic you know
christianity you know this is what's
going on in prisons
you know don't you think buddhism could
be a really positive
alternative for people in prison you
know even if it's just
even if it's just to be intellectually
stimulating go on
i think the issue is that how the hell
is it going to make its way in you know
well wait wait but i'm not talking about
passively
right oh no no no no no but
i'm talking about i'm talking about
buddhist charities with money and
organization actually going in and doing
things which you know which the muslim
organizations do too and so on
i can give you a very very relevant
example of
new zealand's most prevalent um
religious what do you what do you call
the one of the top dogs
in um news in in the church
like as far as you can get a bishop yeah
so there's this man called bishop brian
tamaki
and he wanted to advocate for a a thing
called the man up program
in prisons where they they
like you're saying they put in
charitable hours
and bring these gang members of
violent thugs and meth addicted
you know people have had [ __ ] up
childhoods and they
they man them up they turned them into
adults
the issue with that is that brian tamaki
has also been um
inundated in his own political
controversies of how
gay people cause earthquakes and all
this
you know dumb [ __ ] the problem is that
religion is built on a lie i mean
fundamentally it's a bunch of yeah this
is a big problem
but you know this this is an example of
a religion wanting to
move in and uphold some
good values among these very uh
gang gangs are quite a big problem
in new zealand and they're they grow
because
you know people don't have the [ __ ]
their father figures right
so i've i've met a couple i knew a
couple of new zealanders
in when i lived in asia in southeast
asia and the theme they came back to
again and again about new zealand
culture was loneliness
which i found interesting so that it's
that's a very and hey
video games may be a part of that too i
mean you know
um it's a way of being alone
it's okay you know everyone has their
advices and their hobbies but
yeah i think i'm blessed with the
technology i'm given
just just to just to finish the point
though so i wasn't specifically saying
the answer is more buddhist monks going
to
going to prisons but i just point out so
i'm not a buddhist anymore i'm not part
of any buddhist organization
but my point was you know instead of
just hoping that government surveillance
captures these things
i wonder if there isn't some kind of
positive
alternative you know philosophically or
you know into it as an organization that
can try to press forward
you know i i'm i'm horrified to see
communists
communists are gaining new converts
communism really is making a comeback i
can't believe it in 2019. so go on
brendan tarrant had almost no history he
had no reason
to be in a prison in the first place
this is why it's so difficult to pick up
on
uh radicals like him you know he
he he did nothing that would uh
suspectedly put someone on a government
watch list
you know i don't think he did at least
yeah
he must have done some things but not
not anything that i would be able to
figure out
well i mean i i think that the reality
is we live in a world where
you know belief is dangerous i think
that's true across the board i think
you know christian faith is dangerous i
also think you know these kinds of
extreme political beliefs are dangerous
but you know we live in a world where
you know increasingly
people are the arbiters of their own
faith and they look around on the
internet
for little bits and pieces of
information that affirm the faith the
firm whatever it is they they want to
believe in
okay so it's it's been nice talking to
you i was going to try to wrap it up why
don't you give me some final thoughts
we're coming up on the 30 minute mark
uh oh no i've lost it now
i sabotaged your outro
look you know you can tell me but i mean
the the future of
new zealand is in some ways bright i
mean
in some ways nobody is seriously worried
about the future of new zealand
despite this massacre and despite the
consequences in the government
in a somewhat amateurish way you know um
scrambling around
i mean you know i i don't know when when
you look ahead to the next five years
obviously that this has been a huge
in new zealand there's an absolutely
huge disruption to the regular political
status quo
but yeah so i can yeah i can make a
finishing point on this
it's just that there is always a
consistent
push towards authoritarianism in my
country
that's the main point is that even
though i
i was saying that the only way we're
going to capture these sorts of
people from stopping to stop their
crimes is to
increase surveillance that's the exact
opposite of what i really want because
surveillance in my country is already
over the top there's
there's already examples of private
citizens
having their phones
traced and things like this with the
example of kim.com
the owner of mega and mega upload yeah
he had his house broken into because
i i would say hollywood just has too
much power over
our country well you know
i'd say also when you talk about
authoritarianism
the alternative being democracy one of
the things i think is most
um positive about democracy
is that it draws people out to defend
and explain their ideas
in in a theatrical way so i can remember
i was at city hall
so this is the lowest level of democracy
in canada at city hall
and there were some real far left
wingers they were either communists or
left-wing socialists
who came in and gave city hall a lecture
about
labor rights and the oppression of the
the workers
it was a specific group of workers too
it was a you know it wasn't wasn't all
workers in general
and then so they finished their their
presentation which was so many minutes
and then the the members of city council
the elected people so they said
oh okay so so what's what's your
proposal what do you want us to do
and they were stumped they really they
really had nothing they were so used to
probably at that time already on the
internet they were so used to just
the tuperating and speechifying and i
was like oh oh no wait okay you've come
here
look we're willing to hear your proposal
for how like you know how these people's
lives can be improved or what you want
us to do differently
you know what you want us to do so even
that
right right well no but i mean even that
just drawing people out
and and giving them the chance to feel
embarrassed
you know because maybe that's a bit of
oh gee i never really thought through
you know
um a lot of extreme views become less
extreme i think
when they're really included in the
public forum in that way
maybe maybe that's recklessly optimistic
of me but uh that's where i'm gonna
end this conversation because like you
say even you
uh arguing against white supremacists
have your video centered on the internet
i think that the other side of the
debate will be
um rather concerned say you are to
debate a
far leftist upload that video to youtube
and have that video get censored
then that far leftist is just going to
be as pissed off as you are that that
video got taken down because of hate
speech
yeah yeah so we gotta rally together and
have some
debate not hate okay thanks very much
this great note ended on thank you